Look Last time i tried building a Fifa game in unity and it looked like this.
this time around... I wanted to add improvements to the goalie fix the look of the field and impormentmets to the animations. basically making the worst optimized code in my life befor i blow up my mac book. Please let me know in the comments what you want to see added to this game!
Alright, welcome back to Part 2 of building Fifa in unity. If you havent seen Part 1... go check it out... or dont... honestly it is pretty terrible.
But today this into an actual functioning game

First i wanted to fix my player. in part 1 the dribbling was terrible where the ball was just where ever it wanted to be around the player. To make the game a bit more pleasing to look at I gave the player a red jersey... beacuse obviously... Arsenal.
Also... why does he look like that. this man know something that i dont.

then i moved on to making the field look nicer. before it looked like a green rectangle from 2004. so i added a png overlay of a field.
I tried 2 different images and tried to enhance them in photoshop. I wasnt super happy with how they turned out but it works for now.

I wanted a stadium to surround the field. So I checked the the Unity Store and Yeah.... no. I am not paying 100-200$ for this. So I build my own Stadium. It looks like Minecraft... but from a far? We call that immersion.

Next up was fixing some of the many gameplay issues. 

IF you missed the goal nothing happened and you had to restart the game. Now i added a barrier for if you miss the goal it still resets the game. I had this print in the console to know this actually worked.

I also fixed the dribbling because before the ball wouldnt even stay in front of the player. i added this bob to the ball too for a while the ball was going into the ground and i dont know if i like it but i fixed it and i am leaving it for now.

Now the hardest part. The Goalie. I kinda went down a path trying to make all the parts of the goalie look good.
Also my code for the goalie was mostly created with AI and looking back on it now that i understand C# it was horrible!

I added a mesh to the goalie and added some colors the same way i did with the player. I then rewrote most of the KeeperScript and had him on 3 different states. Patroling Reacting and Saving. Which was very broken at first and also messed up all the animations i attempted to add to the game.

I was trying to make animations and Goloves for the goalie but i suck at blender. and i didnt want to spend 1-2 hours on making gloves

So i downloaded this folder of about 50 soccer animations from mimaxo. not sponsored... most of the animations seemed pretty promising though
Then when ever the goalie moved back and forth he was stuck in the ground...
which was an ancor point problem and then the animations werent playing correctly which took alot of debugging. Like making sure time looping was on. making a method that detects if the goalie is moving left or right. I also found out that the stadium and field was in '-' units so all my operation on the states were wrong.
I eventually got the side to side movement working, originally i used lerp then i used the ball position in the x direction to tell which way the goalie was going where if the goalie is moving to negitve units it plays the left animation and vise versa. onece i fixed to operation for the negitive units the goalie was switching to the patrolling state. and looked good moving side to side.
I also needed a way for my goalie to dive and a colider on the goalie. cause right now its really easy to score... i am like prime pogba out here. So i added diving animations from the folder i downloaded and they worked well. I have it now where a Sin wave is generated and the goalie tracks that. This way the goalie wont be diving at the wrong time.

I also fixed the colider so when you shoot it doesnt bounce off the goalie and go in the goal.

In the future i want to add the goalie catching the ball. Also Let me know in the comments if you think i should leave this camera or switch to a fifa style view camera.
I plan on adding the goalie rolling out the ball as well as better animations for the player. one day hopefully i will add a skill move in there and some more players.

Id like to add sprinting, shot speed, sound effects
I hope you all enjoyed peace
