Video Notes
Notes for me to refer to when making the video for YT
=== 3/13/2026 ===

I added a color to the player of course I made the players Jersey Red beacuse of arsenal
NGL the player model is scary
I want to add a goalie but first I wanted to add an actual pitch line so it looked more like a soccer field.
The scale was terribly off fixed it with just eyeballing it. I dont know if that is the best method
So Then I tried to make a Stadium. I looked at the unity store and other 3D modeling software markets and I found that a lot of them had expensive Stadiums well I just didnt want to spend money.... cause i am broke. So I tried to make a blocky Stadium
I also Hated the way the Field looked... I needed a Higher Res Image. I tried expanding the image in Photo shop but still was not satisfied. so i...looked into how to enhance the image in photoshop
I addded in the miss trigger of course i used the worst dimentions for the net so it was hard to calculate where to put it
Was able to get the miss trigger in and working where if the player missed the goal the game would still reset

I rewrote the Player and Goalie scripts to be a little bit cleaner. There are still bugs but at least the code looks better and it is easier to edit the values within unities inspector.

I started to think that i should switch from this close 3rd person camera to a more fifa style camera.

I was able to find a pool of Animations to add to the game with 50-55 Animations so i had to get to work adding them all to my game.

I added some to the Goalie and made a mesh for the goalie. I tried putting gloves on him but i suck at blender and did not want to waste time. so I added the player in and gave him a different shirt. I added some animations and then i started to see some errors. The states were not switching because the field was in the '-' z axis. I ran with it sadly and fixed the code then i needed to fix the fact my animations were showing the goalie in the ground. like what even. The hips of the goalie were locked to the ground. I then added more side step animations and forgot to input the animations so that created an error.
Then the patrol direction wasnt updating because it was only on patrol so the directionalSpeed Parameter I added in the Animator menu was not updating poperly.

I had to change the way the goalie knows if he is going to the left or right so he performs the right animation. so instead of the Lerp - the goalie Position which came out to 0 i did the ball position x - the goalie position x. still alot of buggs but i was happy to see all the states working. 

Made it so the Goalie diving animation was actually working and the goalie dove when the ball was to the right or left of him. Had to embed the animation to his feet so he was not playing the diving animaiton and landing in the air but this was actually satisfiying to fix

Had to edit the collider on the goalie


PART 3 ==============

Added a ball to the game look at this bar down goal i hit
I wanted to make the input system way more simple. SO I implemented the Input Map that I used for My COD Zombies game. There was so Much debugging though. I could not figure out how to implemnt this for some reason.
Once I got it though and fixed the shooting I was very happy. I then added Sprinting and SHEEEESh my man is fast. I stepped down his speed so It looked normal and wanted to give him an animation for this.
This next part I knew was going to be tough. That was becaues I wanted to implement a Skill move....
This skill move was soooooo annoying. Because Miximao had no step over skills in their files i was forced to create my own. and jeez was this annoying. First I had to figure out what part of the player was what. then I made the same mistake I did with the COD Zombies game where I recorded the animation and the player was stuck in place. this what because I keyed features i shouldnt have keyed.... this broke my Jogging functionality for a while. once i figured that our i compared with the Jog animation to make sure i wasnt keying any features i shouldnt have. I matched all the parts on the Jog to the parts on the Step over. i binded a key to the step over and... bro would infinitly do step overs. so I found out for this i clicked loop time. I clicked has exit time and made a wire back. but that created my next bug where my player would not return back to the Idle or Jogging animation... this Skill move was pissing me off. This was because i didnt understand how the triggers worked. so I put the trigger in both directions. once i removed that. it finally worked. I went back and tried to make the animation look better. I even took a video of myself talking through how a person would do a step over and where their feet would be.
Since this was my first time it didnt look that great. plus i think i need to add a function or equation that pushes the ball to the left after the skill so the left foot actually looks like it is doing something.
I then wanted to add to the Sprinting so when the player runs not only does he speed up but also hit animation speeds up. I used a multiplyer to basically increase the speed in which the animation plays. Then i wanted to fix the issue for when ever the player shoots this happens. My goal is to implement so this doesnt ever happen. the player should not need to push the ball out of the game to reset it... so I needed to come up with some ideas. First was a celebration. Which again was not in miximao so I kept it simple. after a player shoots he goes back to jogging. If it is a goal the the player will do the airplane celebration. 
I made a method in the Goal manager since i already refrence the player where the goal manager tells us "We scored" this way our player can instantly start celebrating
